# Algorithm 9/22


::: tip 
    Thank you to Jeffrey Liguori who runs the meetup
    Thank you to Khanh Do who worked with me to solve these problems
:::

## Question 1: Consonant Count 
I am part of an Algorithm meetup that meets every sunday.
I want to document the algorithms I solve and post them here

Q. There are 3 characters in the string "abcde" that aren't vowels. How many are there in <br />"nxmbbzmmailmmanrbjwfarvnzviikhhiabpsjtqrzbrqizirziddmtjwvkavofaggvjmflyhhhqsfirptznvxxbdmrbumrqfibvndimlubr <br />jnzmfrrmngrbahjvrskfxxnnnrdvhvzkiffsxnrdrnirdffmambxehvfttzlbcdifiljrgmimsxhokzsxtlandrfsrmvvaphtwinnbjwifjdsjjgvxb <br />kcyglkkjzflxwzdndjibzljfkwfwufktzjrjnttlupnjnzffavljanxkivcaautclnawcnxxrannslzrzfmzajakbxwvztvikmidgjjyrckisjnrqkivcdzsqxcxjmmjr"? Note: 'y' is not a vowel in this case.

``` java
class NotVowels {
    public static int notVowelCount(String inputVowels) {
        char[] input = inputVowels.toCharArray();
        int count = 0;
        for(char c : input){
            if( isNotVowel(c)){
                count = count + 1;
            }
        }
        return count;
    }
    public static boolean isNotVowel(char inputChar){
        char[] vowels = {'a','e','i','o','u'};
        List<Character> vowelList = new ArrayList<>();
        for(char c : vowels){
            if( inputChar == c){
                return false;
            }
        }
        return true;
    }

    public static void main(String args[]){
       int answer = notVowelCount("nxmbbzmmailmmanrbjwfarvnzviikhhiabpsjtqrzbrqizirziddmtjwvkavofaggvjmflyhhhqsfirptznvxxbdmrbumrqfibvndimlubrjnzmfrrmngrbahjvrskfxxnnnrdvhvzkiffsxnrdrnirdffmambxehvfttzlbcdifiljrgmimsxhokzsxtlandrfsrmvvaphtwinnbjwifjdsjjgvxbkcyglkkjzflxwzdndjibzljfkwfwufktzjrjnttlupnjnzffavljanxkivcaautclnawcnxxrannslzrzfmzajakbxwvztvikmidgjjyrckisjnrqkivcdzsqxcxjmmjr");
        System.out.println(answer);
    }
}

```
### Explanation

Step by step breakdown of what I did

1. I created the class and the boiler plate code.
2. I initialized the function notVowelCount
    * I knew that the function would return an int and have a string as an argument
3. I converted the input string to a char array so I can look at each character
4. I wrote a helper function that returned type boolean and had an argument of type char
    * Inside this helper function I created a char array of all vowels
    * I looped over all the chars and if the input character was a vowel I returned false
    * else I returned true
5. If the helper function returned true I increment a count variable
6. After I looped over the entire input string, I returned count which was my answer


## Question 2: Fibonacci

I struggled with spelling Fibonacci 

Q. The fibonacci numbers are a sequence of numbers where each number is the sum of the two before it. For instance: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, ... . In that example, 13 is the 7th fibonacci number. What is the 17th?


``` java
class Fib {
    public static int numberAtIndex(int index){
        if( index == 1){
            return 1;
        }
        if( index == 2){
            return 1;
        }
        int answer = numberAtIndex(index-1) + numberAtIndex(index-2);
        return answer;
    }
    public static void main(String args[]){
        int answer = numberAtIndex(17);
        System.out.println(answer);
    }
}

```

### Explanation

1. First I did the boiler plate code
2. Then I initialized the numberAtIndex function
    * I knew it would take an int and return an int
3. We chose to use a recursive solution
4. First we figured out the base case that if the index was 1 or 2 it would return 1
    * initially we made the mistake of saying 0 or 1, however 1 or 2 was the correct base case
    * Because the list started at 1 not 0
5. Then I made two recursive calls back to numberAtIndex with arguments being the previous two indexes
6. I add them together and saved them to a variable called answer
6. I returned answer
